
        
        LL       AAAA   BBBBB   YY  YY     ''   MM  MM  OOOOOO  NN  NN
        LL      AA  AA  BB  BB  YY  YY    ''    MMMMMM  OO  OO  NNN NN
        LL      AAAAAA  BBBBB    YYYY           MM  MM  OO  OO  NN NNN
        LL      AA  AA  BB  BB    YY            MM  MM  OO  OO  NN  NN
        LLLLLL  AA  AA  BBBBB     YY            MM  MM  OOOOOO  NN  NN

                                FOR COLOR GAMEBOY
                             (: By  Joseph Norman :)

	For Bung's 3 rd Amateur Gameboy TM Format Game Coding Competition

1. What is it????

   Laby'mon is a maze kind of game. But just not a maze game were you have to
   go from start to end and hen next level. But not this game. You will have
   to use your wits to find out secret passages, collect items, go through
   doors, warp to different places on the map, and more! Also, it will make
   you go crazy trying to guess your way out of some of the mazes :). In some
   mazes, there will be spaces that will look like you can pass through. You
   try to go through, but boom! You find out you can't pass through that
   space. There will also be secret passages you will need to keep a look out
   for, like spaces that look like walls, but really, some you can just pass
   right through, like a blank space. Like MAGIC, huh (ya right)! Like I said,
   some mazes will keep you puzzled for a while, so hang in there.

2. How do I play this thing????

   Like regular maze games, the object is to go from start to the end. But
   on this game, you will experience a couple of obstacles. If you encounter
   a blank space, you could either walk through it, or it might not be your
   lucky day and you won't be able to pass through it. In a space that looks
   all black (A.K.A. A wall), won't be able to pass through it, or you might
   be lucky and ya will be able to pass through it. On a space that looks like
   a door, you will either need a key that fits the perfect color of the door,
   or you might not pass through. On a space that looks like a ladder, you
   will be able to go to the next level, which is a good thing. On a space
   that looks like a hole with a ladder, it serves a very good purpose in the
   game, it does absolutely nothing! Actually it's where you start. On a space
   that looks like a box with a color; it will transport you to a space that
   has a little checkerboard like square with the same color. For all you
   wondering what that little space that looks like a hole going to nowhere,
   it is actually a pit that make you go back to the start. And finally, on a
   space that looks like glasses; it will let you view all the invisible
   spaces.

3. What are the keys????

   Well, it's simple. Like regular games:

              GO UP
                ^
        GO LEFT< >GO RIGHT
                V
             GO DOWN

   I guess you couldn't figure that one out, huh?

4. A little history lesson

   1-20-2000     First beta release to Bung Compo. and public	v0.0000000001

5. Contact

   For positive feedback on this game, go ahead and e-mail me at:
   joseph_n15@hotmail.com. come on, I dare ya to e-mail me.

6. Thanks to:
   Pascal Felber, Michael Hope for their excellent C compiler (GBDK).
   MegaMan_X his great graphic to gameboy format converter PCX2GB.
   For all those people that keep making those GB programming tutorials.
   And also ME, of course :)

7. Last words

   In the future, there will probably be another version available. In
   upcoming versions, I know I could and will implement background music,
   a level editor, more map objects, more levels, better control, a lot
   better graphics (a lot better than seeing Mr. Stick), password features,
   SRAM functions, the releasing of the source (only for this beta), a lot
   optimizing in the code,.........the list goes on. I'm also working on a
   HUGE Gameboy RPG game taking up a fourth of my time and also school
   being in the way, especially for this is finals week, so I wouldn't
   count on there being another version for a while.




   


