HANGMAN'99
----------

A freeware Gameboy game!

(c) 1999 - Thomas V.

License is granted to freely copy and use this game for as long as no profit is
made from it for any reason and under any circumstances whatsoever.

You may not distribute the game without this accompanying text file.


BUT WHY?
--------

A couple of weeks ago (May 1999) I saw some news about a Gameboy development
kit and thought I'd try it. I got the kit and managed to get this game running
in about 2-3 days (version 1 was done in the first day, and then I added the
various options for version 2). Why Hangman? Because it's the only game I can
think of that doesn't need graphics and sound, so I could do everything using
simple C code. I thought I'd add a few more twists to it but I hit some memory
limit; adding one more ROM bank and changing some calls would take me some
embarrasingly short time... which, unlike though it may sound, I really didn't
have. As a result, I have cut some corners, i.e. a couple of useful routines
and options are missing, and almost all the limitations I shall be mentioning
next are memory related.

Currently, Hangman has a dictionary of 13,545 words (no plurals, names, gerunds
or past tenses).


AND HOW?
--------

I use Gameboy98 v.0.05c (http://gameboy98.cjb.net) and Hangman plays just fine.
Upon switching on, the game initialises by keeping an index of all words played
that far so no duplicates are chosen in the same Gameboy session.

I have included some screens with brief instructions in the game, but probably
the only thing you need to know is what the keys are. Use the direction keys to
move your pointer from a letter to another one when trying to guess a word. To
select a letter, press the A button. SELECT and START have special functions at
this stage (see AHA!). For all other possible keypresses, an appropriate
message will appear at the bottom of the screen.

You might find that using certain keypresses for various functions (e.g. "Press
B" rather than "Press any key") is a bit inconvenient. Alas, it saves memory in
more than one ways.


HMMMMM...
---------

Make a choice of one out of three game types. To select a game, move the
pointer to its title and press SELECT or A. To change the parameters of a game,
move to the item you want to change with the up and down buttons and use the
left/right buttons to decrease/increase the corresponding value respectively.

These are the three game types:

20 TIMES SCORE: You will be given 20 tries and attempt to get the highest SCORE
--------------- average possible (for an explanation of what SCORE is, see
E=mc^2). You can choose how many times each of the 6- to 10-letter words will
appear in these 20 tries. You can set the number of words for these lengths
in the range between 0 and 20. Below 0, there is the INF option, which
basically means that there will be a random number of words chosen from this
word-length. Note, however, that you have to either set all word lengths to INF
or none at all.

Changing the number of words for a word length also affects the other word
lengths, as the total number needs to be 20. If you want to set everything
easily without wondering why word numbers change where you don't want them to,
then just do this: first change the 6-letter words to the desired value, then
the 7-letter ones and so on. Everything will fall into pieces very nicely.

When the game is over, a summary screen will appear.

When playing the 20 TIMES SCORE game, the Game, Stats, Score and Lives numbers
appear on screen.

FREE PLAY: Choose minimum and maximum word length and play until it's time to
---------- go out and watch Comet Halley. You can try to reach the highest
number of total POINTS (see E=mc^2).

When playing the FREE PLAY game, the Game, Stats and Lives numbers appear on
screen.

Note! When you start a FREE PLAY game you cannot exit; round after round you
will be getting a new word to guess with no option to return to a previous
menu. Reload the ROM to start again.

BEST POINTS: Similar to FREE PLAY, but this time you choose the number of times
------------ to play and try to get the highest average of POINTS. You can set
this number of times to be anything (1 or more). When trying to select a number
of times below 1, you will get the indication INF, which makes the BEST POINTS
game identical to FREE PLAY, or RND. In RND mode, the computer will set (but
not reveal) the number of times you will play before the game ends. This number
will always be between 5 and 30 games.

When the game is over, a summary screen will appear.

When playing the BEST POINTS game, the Game, Stats and Lives numbers appear on
screen.

The end game summary is different depending on the game type (see IT WAS FUN).


E=mc^2
------

For the purpose of scoring, we have to distinguish between two important
definitions.

* POINTS is your reward for guessing a word, or the penalty for not being able
to do so. When your game consists of guessing more than one word, POINTS keep
added to your previous amount, until the game is over.

The number of POINTS you get for guessing a word depends on a number of
parameters:
- the fewer letters the word had, the more POINTS you will get
- the fewer lives you've lost while trying to guess the word, the more POINTS
  you will get
- the fewer duplicate letters the word has, the more POINTS you will get

When you have not been able to guess a word, you will be penalised, although
not for as many POINTS as if you had guessed the word.
- the fewer letters the word had, the fewer POINTS you will lose
- the fewer duplicate letters the word has, the fewer POINTS you will lose

* SCORE is a normalised version of POINTS, only used for the 20 TIMES SCORE
game. It takes the number of POINTS you have at a given time in one of your 20
tries and adds to it a bonus for the number of words you have managed to
guess that far. The more words you have guessed out of the 20, the bigger the
bonus is, and the more SCORE becomes larger than POINTS.

If you can win all 20 games with 6-letter words only, without any miss when you
chose letters and no duplicate letters in any of the words used, you will get
the maximum average SCORE of 140.

In a balanced-word length 20 TIMES SCORE game (i.e. 4 words for each word
length), the above conditions return a maximum SCORE of 114.

If you can win all 20 games using only 10-letter words with 4 lost lives and 3
duplicate letters for each word guessed, you will get an average SCORE of about
50.

If you manage to lose all 20 games, you will end up with an average SCORE
between -20 and -38.


AHA!
----

So there are some points to remember when playing:

- If you are playing to a fixed number of tries, using more shorter length
words will give you more POINTS, higher SCORES and therefore higher averages.
It is a good idea to try to compare your results to those you have obtained
playing under the same conditions, i.e. the same amount of words for each word
length.

- Words with less than 7 letters are quite difficult to guess; you therefore
get one life more when having a go at them.

- You can press START when guessing a word and the program will immediately
respond as if you had just guessed the word. SELECT is used for acting as if
you had just lost all your lives for the current guess. This means that for
that word you have an instant win (or miss), and your score is updated
accordingly immediately. However, the program also keeps track of these cheat
wins and misses. If you are playing to a fixed number of tries, your cheat
action and cheat games will be displayed in the end.

If you are playing to a fixed number of tries and you have used the win cheat,
you will receive the rank of Cheater. Using the lose cheat has no effect in
ranking.



I SEE
-----

When trying to guess a word, a number of indexes will appear on the screen,
depending on the type of game you play.

Game: Shows the number of try you are currently attempting. If you are playing
to a fixed number of tries, this end-game number follows on the right. However,
if you have chosen to play for a random number of times (an unknown number
between 5 and 30 for the BEST POINTS game), the string '??' appears instead.

Stats: Your current success in the game. Three numbers are here, your total
number of POINTS so far, the number of times you have won, and the number of
times you have lost.

Score: This set of numbers only appears if you are playing the 20 TIMES SCORE
game. The first is your average SCORE, i.e. your POINTS plus guess bonuses
divided by the number of games you have played. The second is your average
POINTS, i.e. only the POINTS divided by the number of games you have played (no
word guess bonuses).

Lives: The remaining number of times you can try to guess the word.


IT WAS FUN
----------

When the game is over, the summary screen appears. Here is the meaning of the
items on it (those showing for 20 TIMES SCORE games only, appear with a
'*' on their left):

Games: Total number of games played.

Won: Games won. If you have cheated, a breakdown of cheats is displayed to the
right, in the format (normal wins + cheat wins).

Lost: Games lost. If you have cheated, a breakdown of cheats is displayed to
the right, in the format (normal misses + cheat misses).

Points: The total of POINTS for all games played.

Highest: The highest number of POINTS for a single word.

Lowest: The lowest number of points for a single word (that you have guessed).

Average: The POINTS average, i.e. POINTS / number of games.

Win Avg: The average of POINTS taking into account wins only, i.e. POINTS/wins.

* Score: The SCORE average (POINTS+guess-bonuses divided by number of games).

Cheat: If you have not cheated, this displays 'No'. If you have only used the
lose cheat this reports 'Lose only'. 'Yes' appears when the win cheat has been
used.

* Rank: A rough classification which has been known to be rather demeaning to
some performances and utterly flattering for some others. When Cheat is 'Yes',
the rank will be Cheater, regardless of the score achieved.


OOPS!
-----

Yes, it's a REAL program, what would you expect?

- Problem: "The SCORE turns negative after 32,000"
- Explanation: POINTS are kept in a 16-bit variable.
- Solution: Try to play less than, say, 500 games in one go. It will do good
  both to your eyesight and to my reputation as a programmer. Or lose more
  often.

- Problem: "When the SCORE average goes higher than 127, it turns negative"
- Explanation: SCORE average is assumed to always be less than 127 and handled
  accordingly by the program.
- Solution: Stop using the winning cheat and play again. You might get a
  negative SCORE the normal way.

- Problem: "I am at game no 934 and Gameboy appears to have slowed down"
- Explanation: The algorithm for choosing an unused word is simple and slow. If
  you only play with 10-letter words, there will be about 1,500 of them
  scattered in the 13,000 word memory. If you have already used half of the
  10-letter ones, the program will be looking for one of the remaining 750 out
  of 13,000 words (that's one out of 20). Because of the random choice of
  words, you might have to wait a bit (1-10 seconds) until that valid one in
  the 20 is found. This certainly isn't noticable until you have reached at
  least 200 games.
- Solution: Be grateful that I did not include the 4 20-letter words in this
  version.

- Problem: "I am playing in FREE PLAY mode and I want to return to the game
  type menu"
- Explanation: You did not read the instructions.
- Solution: Keep playing until a power failure occurs. When power is restored,
  the Gameboy will reset and the game will display the main screen followed by
  the game type menu. You can now choose a new game.


2084 AD
-------

Right now the fixed ROM memory is literally full to the last byte; I had to
shorten the on-screen instructions by a few characters in order to compile the
thing! As I said in the beginning, I wanted to add a few more bits but I
probably won't, unless I receive more than 5 emails asking me to. Here are my
ideas:

- save high scores
- use 4- to 20-letter words
  I actually have the lists and the code ready, but I have to free some fixed
  ROM memory first
- play double hangman
  2 words at the same time for the same set of letters chosen by the player
- play fixed or random pattern hangman
- add a hangman to actually be there and sacrifice his life for the weak
  player
- add 2-player match
  the letter you choose affects the other player's word and vice-versa
- fix the game and POINTS counters
- add option to allow word reuse
- add an "exit FREE PLAY" option
- improve keystroke options
- add a timer for guessing a word


HELP!
-----

If anyone has a good greek dictionary with single entries for each word (i.e.
no declinations for nouns, no persons for verbs), please contact me.


OBSERVATIONS
------------

Well, one really. I never tough I'd have so many things to say about a simple
hangman game.


EXCUSE ME, SIR!
---------------

Comments, questions, suggestions are encouraged and welcomed. You can reach me
at thomas@sees.bangor.ac.uk

