
                                        ***Dynamite!!***
             A Gameboy Color game by MattPW written for the GBDev2000 Competition 

                               E-Mail - gbdev@dial.pipex.com 

                        Web Site - http://www.gbdev.dial.pipex.com

Introduction:
-------------

 This game is freeware may be freely distributed. It was written using GBDK and was finished in August 
 2000. It was designed for the Gameboy Color, and although playable on the original Gameboy system, 
 the graphics look pretty terrible on it. The game also works much better on the real hardware rather 
 than in an emulator, so if you have a GBXChanger or something similar, try the game out on your Gameboy 
 Color and you'll find it's much more playable.

Gameplay:
---------

 You are Dynamite Pete and you have been sent underground to defuse all of the dynamite that has been
 left behind by the evil Bob the Bomber. Each stick of dynamite has a 20 second fuse, so you have that
 long to get to the dynamite before it explodes. To reach the dynamite, Pete must sometimes push walls
 out of the way, but he can only push a wall into an empty space. Therefore he must be careful that he
 doesn't get himself trapped or blocked by the walls.

 There is sometimes more than one stick of dynamite in each room. Luckily for Pete, they are all linked 
 remotely, so he doesn't have to reach every one. If he manages to defuse one of them, they will all be 
 made safe. Remember, pushing a wall over the top of a bomb doesn't defuse it, it just means Pete can't 
 get to it!

 This game has 29 levels, and hopefully it will take a while to complete. They start easy, but get harder,
 and you can't just learn a sequence of movements for each level because they randomly flip in different
 directions each time you play. I might write more levels in the future, but I didn't have enough time for 
 this version. Once the GBDev 2000 competition is over, I'll probably release the source code on my site 
 and if anyone can understand it, they can write their own levels for the game.

Controls:
---------

 The controls are pretty obvious really, but here they are:

 D-pad - This moves Pete in any direction. To push a wall just walk in to it. 

 Start/Select - These buttons pause the game during play.

Credits:
--------

 Thanks must go to the following people without whose programs this game could not have been written:

   Pascal Felber's GBDK C compiler, now maintained and developed by Michael Hope - http://gbdk.sourceforge.net/

   Harry Mulder - for his brilliant Gameboy Tile Designer and Map Builder

   Peter Havelar and all the folks at Lost Boys Games for their GB Tile Quantizer - http://www.games.lostboys.nl

   G.Raimond (aka Lemon) - for his Lemon tracker player - http://www.gbdev.org/lemon/

   Fredrik Huss and Magnus Högdahl, the programmers of FastTracker, a music file editor.


And finally, thanks to Quang for organizing this brilliant GBDev 2000 competition - http://www.quangdx.com/


