ATTENTION:      PLEASE do not distribute YARS REVENGE without this
!!!!!!!!!       document, or the files listed at the bottom of this
                document.                         Thank you! -MIKE

----------------------------------------------------------------------
 VERSION 1.0
                              Y A R S 

                           R E V E N G E

                       THE QOTILE ULTIMATUM!

                          FOR GAMEBOY(tm)

----------------------------------------------------------------------
      Dedicated to Micki and Jenny because they accept our vices
----------------------------------------------------------------------

TABLE OF CONTENTS:

0.0     History
1.0     Why Yar's Revenge?
1.1     Z80, Gameboy(tm) and the Universe
1.2     YARS REVENGE <=> RAY'S REVENGE??
1.3     Credit where credit is due!
2.0     "You're a fly named Yar on a quest in space..."
2.1     Scoring
2.2     Controls
2.3     Level Divisions
2.4     Different Qotiles!
3.0     Technical Information
3.1     Debug Game Variables
4.0     Who are these guys?!
4.1     Brains for Hire
5.0     Copyrights
6.0     Thanks to all our Gameboyz...
7.0     What is included

0.0     History

Here is a documented project history.  Not very useful, but helpful
in tracking my insanity.  I have an old school pride in getting
things done QUICKLY.  Thanks to folks mentioned throughout this
document, I was able to do that.  All work was done in my free
time (Which is VERY limited when you work full-time).

12-13-96        ***** RELEASE DAY OF V1.0!! *****
                Friday the 13th, our lucky day.  Game appears to
                to be complete!  Final stages of bug reporting.
                Initial release! Jeff Frohwein says it may not
                be able to be burned, first time hearing about
                update issues.  I'm gonna order a smart card
                system!

12-12-96        Added pause, fixed some bugs, added level
                indicator.  Bob informs me he has reached
                a score of 114,000.  Can I beat it?
                looks like next week for release.  Just have
                to bug check the whole thing.  Already laying
                out plans for next project!  Mars Attacks!
                comes out tomorrow at the show, how fitting...
                I got 245,853 points!

12-11-96        Fixed Quotile shooting bug (It didn't see you 
                at the far right).  Fixed startup shooting bug
                as well.  Also put x-limit on shooting so you
                can't shoot cells from the far left!  Fixed
                right boundary problems, fixed all collisions
                for better accuracy.  Added more levels.
                Added hidden *LEVEL SELECT*.  Added Qotile
                sound effects based on DX/DY.  Added windup
                effect for Qotile spin.  Bob got 140,000+
                tonight!  MY GOD!  He's iNsAnE!  I think a
                release is finally ready... a few more bug
                fixes.

12-10-96        Added High Score Keeping.  It seems to work.
                Bob got 89,000+ last night!  Wowza.
                Yar Overlay finished.  Got a new colorscheme!
                Bob starts work on new driver, will be used
                in upcoming Gameboy(tm) title (Not Yars!).

12-09-96        Officially organized YARS.TXT and added GAME OVER
                screen.  Damn, I need to organize my spaghetti-
                like code! Scoring and free live conditions set.

12-08-96        We now have score, levels, difficulty, intermission,
                lives.  A new Intermission tune by Bob.  Bob and
                Mike power-talk via e-mail.  Many code swaps done
                through E-Mail.

12-07-96        We now have collisions, effects, etc.  A sub-title
                screen offers copyright info.  Sent source code
                to myself in a sealed, postage marked envelope for
                precautions.  (Not to protect money making potential,
                just so I can take action against people who claim
                it is THEIR work.  Feel free to rip my source, as
                I have done to others.  But make sure you credit
                those people!  I will gladly make source available
                to trustworthy fellows!)  Also, I think I am wasting
                too many cycles.  I will work on slashing code for
                next revision.

12-06-96        We have a Zorlon Cannon, a cruise missile.. No collisons.

12-05-96        We have music.  My lame themes are replaced by Bob's
                wonderful tunes.  Added more game elements.  Ripped  
                GBAPA2 for line drawing routine to shoot SWIRL.  Took
                me too long to figure out.  Wasted whole day!  I'm
                a loser!

12-04-96        Yar's is working!  I can recognize things.  Got it
                moving with sound.  Found out Yar's was Girlfriend's
                favorite game.  I did it on purpose (wink...wink How
                did I know??)  She still calls me a nerd.
                Bob wanted a sound tracker, he got one.  The worst
                tracker ever made.  You go Bob.  

12-02-96        Added control.  Wow, that HERO/ZERO document
                rules.  POWER!  Think I'll make YARS.  

11-30-96        We have sound!  Thanks PAN of Anthrox!  I can
                also animate, Thanks me for being me!

11-29-96        My first sprite and PCX conversion.  How good my
                little sprite looks over a picture of Shaft Daddy
                from the World Wide Waste (www.oeonline.com/~bip)

11-28-96        Wow, I got a screen up.  It reads "John's Bogus
                Adventure by McNeff Games"  (This was an inside
                joke that lead to my first contact with GB
                programming.)

1.0     Why Yar's Revenge?

As a child, I spent countless hours playing Yar's Revenge on the Atari 2600.
It wasn't until a few years ago that I found another copy of the game that
included the comic book (Which was M.I.A. amongst my other comics).
I again became addicted to the game when John Dullea's PC ATARI emulator
came out.  The choice was easy.  Among all other classic games, Yar's
was the way to go.

1.1     Z80, Gameboy(tm) and the Universe

On 11-28-96, I downloaded a text file from a site on the internet called
ANTHROX.  In it, a fellow by the name of PAN supplied some technical
information on the Gameboy(tm).  After looking at it a while, I realised my
classic C-64 assembly skills could be put to action and I quickly went
to work on creating a text display.  Thanks to people like Jeff Frohwein
and the folks at Damaged Cybernetics, I was able to download so much
information that in about a week I was able to get a working, playable,
copy of Yar's Revenge.   

1.2     YARS REVENGE <=> RAY'S REVENGE??

Oftentimes, when arcade games are copied for home video systems, the
resulting game is a lackluster rendition of the original.  However, the
designer of Yars' Revenge, Howard Warshaw, avoided this potential problem.
"The original assignment was to do the coin-op game Star Castle," said
Warshaw, "But I felt that the game would translate poorly into the 2600.
My objective when designing a game is to achieve good play, not copy
something regardless. So I topologically reconfigured Star Castle, added
a few twists, and voila, Yars' Revenge was born."

Although the marketing department usually decides on the name for a
particular game, Howard used a little ingenuity to get the name he
wanted on the product. "Marketing was considering a number of very lame
names for the game. So I invented Yars' Revenge and actually wrote the
story for the game that was done in a comic book and released with
the game. The way I did it was to write the story, then "leak" some info
to marketing that would lock up the title. The reason it is named
YARS' Revenge, is that YAR spelled backwards is RAY. The CEO of Atari
at the time was RAY Kassar. I told one marketing dude that Ray knew
of the naming and was enthusiastic about it. I told him to keep this
info to himself, knowing that it would be all over marketing in 2 hours.
I also figured that no one in marketing would have the gumption to talk
to Ray about this. So, they informed me in a couple of days that this
title had been selected. I out marketed marketing."

While at Atari (1981-1984), Howard also worked on the games Raiders of
the Lost Ark and ET.  "Since I left Atari, I have gotten a California Real
Estate Brokers license (hated real estate), written and published two books
(one on a gambling card game called Pan, and another on how to have a
stellar college career called Conquering College), I have done some
teaching in business and some local colleges, I took the LSATs (91%),
I am a photographer and recently received my certification in video
production. I have already done a documentary on Russian immigration
and a corporate piece for Tecnomatix."  Warshaw is currently writing CAD
applications for Tecnomatix in San Jose.

* Ripped from Activision's Classic Action Pack - Please do not be
  offended Activision!

1.3     Credit where credit is due!
        (Original Game Credits for the Atari 2600)

Original Cartridge Programmer                      ...Howard Scott Warshaw
Writer                                             ...Hope Shafer
Illustrators                                       ...Frank Cirocco
                                                      Ray Garst
                                                      Hiro Kimura
Art Director                                       ...Steve Hendricks

2.0     "You're a fly named Yar on a quest in space..."

GAME PLAY  

The primary objective of the game is to break a path through the shield,
and destroy the Qotile with a blast from the Zorlon Cannon.  The
secondary objective is to score as many points as possible.

The shield is the moving area in front of the Qotile base.  It appears
in one of two shapes, as an arch, or a shifting rectangle.  

The shield is made up of cells.  The Yar scout can destroy these cells
by firing at them with energy missiles, from any location on the
playfield, or by devouring them on direct contact.  (The Zorlon Cannon
can be used to demolish cells, but this is a waste of a powerful
weapon.)

Once a path has been cleared through the shield, the Zorlon Cannon 
must be used to destroy the Qotile.  To call up the cannon, the Yar
can either eat five cells, or run over the Qotile.

The Zorlon Cannon appears on the far left side of the playfield, and
moves in a direct line with the Yar.  This means the Yar is in its line
of fire.  It is important, therefore, to aim the cannon at the Qotile,
fire it, and fly out of the way FAST!

The Qotile shoots off two weapons.  The Destroyer Missile and Swirls.
The Destroyer Missiles come in a more or less constant stream, one
at a time.  The Yar must do his best to dodge them.  Periodically the
Qotile turns into a Swirl.  This Swirl winds up and rushes after the
Yar.  A Swirl can be destroyed with the Zorlon Cannon by hitting it
either in its base location, or in mid-air.  The further you go into
the armada, the Swirl becomes increasingly dangerous.

The glittering path down the center of the screen is the Neutral Zone.
This area will protect a Yar from Destroyer Missiles, but not from
Swirls.  While in the Neutral Zone, a Yar cannot fire any energy 
missiles of his own.

When a Yar is hit by a Destroyer Missile, a Swirl or his own Zorlon
Cannon, he dies.  Each player has four Yars (Turns) to play in a 
game.  Additional Yars can be earned.

2.1     Scoring

ACTIVITY                        POINTS          BONUS
Cell, hit by missile            1       
Cell, devoured by Yar           5               
Cell, hit by Zorlon             10
Qotile, destroyed               1000
Swirl, destroyed in place       2000
Swirl, destroyed in mid-air     6000            additional life

2.2     Controls

----------------------------------------------------------------------
GAMEBOY         ACTION                          VGB-DOS
----------------------------------------------------------------------
D-PAD           Moves Yar in any direction      Cursor Keys/D-PAD
BUTTON A        Fire missile                    Left Alt/A BUTTON
BUTTON B        Fire Zorlon Cannon              Left Cntrl/B BUTTON
START           Skip titles/Start Game/Pause    Shift/C BUTTON
SELECT          Not Used. (?)                   Z/D BUTTON

2.3     Level Divisions

There are about 8 different level divisions, designated by the
Yar Commander's quote before each level.  They are tightly spaced
until you get into the higher levels, in which case the level
divisions are about 60 levels apart!  There are 255 levels before
it flips.  If you can get to level 255, you are too good for this
game!  

2.4     Different Qotiles!

Yes, you heard it, throughout the heated battle different forms
of Qotile will appear.  Later in the fight, you go up against
the Elite Qotile Destroyers, which are protected by gigantic
shields!  Also, beware of the Qotile tactics, they will do anything
to destroy the Neutral Zone!  If you can last that long, don't
fret, Planet 3 has some tricks up their sleeves to destroy the
Qotile's ability to protect themselves!

3.0     Technical Information

If you have any questions on how we did it, we will gladly answer all
e-mail (See Addresses Below).  

The music is tracked by a rather shoddy driver.  It uses two track data 
and a third metronome track using the noise channel.  A much more  
advanced tracker is in the works by Bob.  Bob Baffy worked around my
limited driver to produce the tunes you hear in the game.

The graphics were created using Photoshop and GBCONVERT by HeroZero
/OldSkool.  I use 8x16 sprite mode to make life a little easier.  I use
two palettes, a flashing palette done by rotating the bits in the palette,
and another that is the standard colors.  I move the neutral zone and Qotile
shield by rotating the bits left or right, depending on the case.  

I compile my work with TASM and the TASM69.TAB by Jeff Frohwein.
I find that TASM is my favorite only because I know how to use it,
and Jeff answers my questions!  Thanks Jeff!  I got around the
32k barrier by simply addressing the $014000, and then padding it,
then using the LD $2000,#.  Works like a charm. 

All my variables are in $c000 and $a000.  Why?  I felt like it.  I split
the two after I saw the GBAPA2 technical code that used variables in
TASM.  I used his variable space ($c000) by default.  I also ripped
his line drawing routine to figure out how to make the Qotile swirl
aim at the yar.  You have to respect the GBAPA2...

I tried everything on VGB-DOS by Marcel De Kogel.  Thanks Marcel for
the incredible emulator!  If someone tries it on a Gameboy(tm) and it
works, let me know, please!  I'm thinking about getting a Smart
Card Backup System.  Somebody give me some information on this, or
if you know of anyone who produces GB carts, I want to tote my
Yar's around!

I use GBTOOL by Rip of Masters of Magic to redo the complement check and 
CRC check.  Why?  Because of the 32k limit on the crc.exe prg by Jeff.
If you are writing under 32k, I highly recommend CRC.EXE for speed.

How do I scroll the screen?  I use the built in scrolling on the
Gameboy(tm).  The background stars are simply sprites to give the illusion
of object scrolling.  It was a good speed and programming trick on my
part. ;)

I mapped everything by hand because I was too lazy to program an editor,
and all current editors do not work on my system for one reason or 
another.  I hope to make a map and character set editor soon.  Like Yars
maps are complicated...

3.1     Debug Game Variables

BANK 0

$a000   Yar Frame                       $a01e   Zorlon 0=no 1+=yes
$a001   Anim count                      $a01f   Yar Lives Counter
$a002   Yar X                           $a020   How much cells eaten?
$a003   Yar Y                           $a021   Death Pause
$a004   Last Control input              $a022   D.Timer A 
$a005   Shot DX                         $a023   D.Timer B
$a006   Shot DY                         $a024   Screen Wipe A Win!
$a007   Active Shot DX                  $a025   Screen Wipe B Win!
$a008   Active Shot DY                  $a026   Screen Wipe C Win!
$a009   Shot Life                       $a027   Level #
$a00a   SPR/BG X $ffx$ff to 32x32       $a028   Shield Scroll Delay Timer
$a00b   SPR/BG Y $ffx$ff to 32x32       $a029   Shield Speed
$a00c   Eat Count (Slow down eating)    $a02a   Swirl Attack Delay
$a00d   Scroll fort up/down (0/1)       $a02b   Intermission Text Pointer
$a00e   Character Beneath Yar           $a02c   Shield Morph Timer A
$a00f   Destroyer Missile Speed         $a02d   Shield Morph Timer B
$a010   ----                            $a02e   Score Digit    
$a011   Base Shot Info A                $a02f   Score Digit
$a012   Base Shot Info B                $a030   Score Digit
$a013   Shoot Swirl? 0=no 1=yes         $a031   Score Digit
$a014   Qotile Frame Count              $a032   Score Digit
$a015   Qotile Shot Speed               $a033   Score Digit
$a016   Qotile Mode 0=normal 1+=Deadly  $a034   HiScore Digit
$a017   Counter Space 1                 $a035   HiScore Digit
$a018   Counter Space 2                 $a036   HiScore Digit
$a019   Counter Space 3                 $a037   HiScore Digit
$a01a   Counter Space 4                 $a038   HiScore Digit
$a01b   Destroyer Missile Speed         $a039   HiScore Digit
$a01c   Yar Dead? 0=no 1+=yes           $a03a   Pause toggle
$a01d   In Neutral Zone? 0=no 1+=yes

4.0     Who are these guys?!

Bob Baffy is a Web Designer, Artist, Music Engineer and Game Designer.  
He works two jobs, one at a prestigious company, and the other 
at Genetic Fantasia.  You can reach him at bip@oeonline.com.  He  
is a nice guy and is willing to outsource his talent as well through
Genetic Fantasia.  He has a family to feed, we can't give away ALL
our work.

Mike Mika is a Programmer, Artist and Game Designer.  He works  
two jobs as well, one at a PC/POS/AUTO ID Distributor, and the other
at Genetic Fantasia.  (No more third person)  I can be reached
at mikam@smurfy.tcimet.net.  I'll answer all your questions if
they are good (Just kidding!).  I encourage anyone with a passion
for programming to contact me.

Genetic Fantasia was founded in 1995 by Jeff Burke, Bob Baffy and
Mike Mika.  It was created to develop software for the Atari Jaguar.
It's potential claim to fame would have been Bomberman Legends,
an Eight Player multi-link version of the Hudson Soft hit series.
Though development was nearly finished, it was stopped when Atari
could not negotiate the license.  No attempt to modify the game to
every legal avenue was made to release the title because Atari hit
the bottom by this time.  Other projects in the works are now being
refitted for the PC and Playstation.  Current staff is five people,
spread over every facet of development.

4.1     Brains for Hire

Genetic Fantasia is a third party developer willing to work on
your projects.  We can support your visual and audio needs, as
well as consult with you about game design.  We also have a series
of games being dveloped that have not yet been marketed to publishers.
If you are a publisher who is interested in what we have to offer,
please contact us.  If you are a developer who needs a helping hand,
we are ready to go.

5.0     Copyrights

Yars' Revenge is Copyright 1982 Atari, Inc. The gameboy code is
copyright 1996 by Mike Mika and Genetic Fantasia.  This game is
free to everyone.  The source will be made available to those
who need it (Be forewarned, it is creepy).  Gameboy is copyright
and trademarked by Nintendo.  

6.0     Thanks to all our Gameboyz...
        (Though they probably don't know us!)

PAN of Anthrox (And all of Anthrox), Jeff Frohwein, Marat Fayzullin,
Marcel De Kogel, Dave of Dave's Videogame Classics, Rip of Masters of
Magic, HeroZero/OldSkool, DiskDude, Sean Whalen of Siamese Dream, all
the guys at Damaged Cybernetics, MegaMan X, Yoshi, John Dullea, Sean Kelly,
Nintendo, Norman Nithman, Matt Currie, Micah Dowty, Bob also thanks Mike for
the introduction to assembly, which has renewed his interest in programming
and restored his faith in humanity! ;) Howard Warshaw, Santa Claus
(Thanks for the fruitful years), Jeff Burke, Jeremy Mika, Eric Auger,
Typhoon Z, Big Weird, Vilewrath, Avatar Z, Bill 'The Classic Video Game
Nut' McNeff, John Morawiec, Eugene Jarvis, Jeff Minter and Nolan Bushnell!

7.0     What you should have:

yar.gb                  -The game!
yar.gif                 -The Super Stylin' Yars Overlay for VGB-DOS
yar.txt                 -This text file
yar.jpg                 -Yar's Revenge Conceptual Cover Art (We can dream)
yar.bat                 -Batch file to run Yars with VGB-DOS SCHEMES
