                       MATH DRILL 20


                        Users Guide





                        Norm Cramer
                   nscramer@earthlink.net






Math Drill 20 is an addition/subtraction trainer for children. It uses
the numbers 0 - 20 as the maximum result and the maximum for any value
in the equation. 

To start the game, press "START" at the Bung logo.
Press "START" again at the credits screen.
Use the UP/DOWN arrow to select the game type. 

Game types are as flows:

+ and - Random  -- Uses random addition and subtraction problems
+ Random        -- Same as above but uses only addition problems
- Random        -- Same as above but uses only subtraction problems
+ Practice      -- Uses a sequence of numbers going from 0 to max 
- Practice      -- Same a above but using subtraction problems

When the type of game has been selected, press "SELECT" to start the
game. 

The problem will fly onto the screen and the 0 in the answer selector
will be highlighted. The arrow keys are used to highlight the correct
answer and "A" is pressed to enter it. If the answer is wrong, the
player gets one more chance to get it right. 

200 points are earned if the problem is correct on the first try, 100
points if correct on the second try and 0 points if the problem is wrong
on the second try. The game also keeps track of percent correct (first
or second try) for each level. To proceed to the next level, the player
needs to get at least 70% correct. The game is divided into levels. Each
level has 10 problems. The problems will be in the form of 9 + box = 9,
box + 9 = 9, or 9 + 0 = box. The player must select the correct answer
from the answer box on the bottom of the screen. The first 4 levels use
10 as the maximum number. After 4 levels, the maximum goes to 12. After
4 more levels, maximum is 14. Levels continue in this manner until the
maximum is 20. From the 20 point on, the maximum stays at 20 for all
subsequent levels.

