< Bung coding contest 2 : www.bung.com.hk >

  HUNGRY ARE THE DEAD
  by molasses & sutter


--- Controls ---

  Use the arrows to move the cursor.
  Button A changes your current action.
  Button B performs your current action.

--- Screen ---

  The pie chart in the top left corner indicates how many moves you have left for your current turn.
  You get 4 moves each turn.

  The icon in the bottom right corner displays what action you are currently on and the number of moves the action takes.

--- Actions ---

  Action      Icon           Cost        Result

  MOVE        walking man    1 move      moves character one space in chosen direction
  AIM         crosshair      2 moves     increases shot accuaracy (may be used numerous times before shooting)
  SHOOT       gun            2 moves     shoot selected target (aiming beforehand improves accuracy, but is not required)
  END TURN    flag           0 moves     discards unused moves and goes to enemy turn

  You may only use an action when the cursor does not have a red cross over it.

  The MOVE cursor is only valid one space left/right/up/down of your character.
  The SHOOT cursor is only valid on an enemy and only if you have 2 or more moves.
  The cursor's position does not matter when the action is AIM or END TURN.

--- How to play ---

  Hungry are the Dead is a turn-based game. This means that you have a number of moves per turn and then the enemies have
  a number of moves per turn. This cycle continues until you complete all tasks, are attacked by an enemy, or decide to
  stop playing.

  1   The cursor starts near the blue character and on the action is set to MOVE.
      Press the B button to move up, part of the pie will disappear.
      You can move 3 more times before it is the enemies turn.
      There is a small pause while the enemies have their turn and then control returns to your character.

  2   Move around the game screen and try to locate the house while avoiding the zombies.

  Your character does not start with a weapon, and cannot attack enemies until he has a weapon.

--- Game info ---

  Programming and full screen illustrations by Molasses.
  Levels, sprites, and game concept by Sutter.


  This game was created with the following tools :

     GBDK
     GBCE
     GBTD
     GBMB
     PCX2GB

   Thanks to all the toolmakers!

--- Contact ---

  molasses@alphalink.com.au  (www.alphalink.com.au/~molasses)
  sutter@alphalink.com.au


