Fatlicks!  Created by Steve Jones, 26th September 1999.


HowToPlay: Simple!

Just move your mallet between the four holes using the D-pad, and press
Button A to whack the Lickers!  Hit them and increase your score, get
licked by them and lose a score! Beat the Hi-Score and award yourself a
prize! (like having another go ;-)


Why?: Because Lickers are up to no good. And its fun to hit Lickers!

Why????:-)

Well I wanted to enter a shoot-em-up for this Bung contest, but I had
a lot of work to do to it, so I decided not to bother with an entry
this time, and concentrate on the Year 2000 compo. But this was no fun!

Five days before the 30th September deadline I decided to at least
code something simple to enter. So I did this!

And after being an Amusement Arcade engineer, working on various Namco
mallet games (Sweetlicks, Cracky Crab ;-) I couldn't resist doing a
simple version...


But its called Fatlicks, I see no fat?:

Yes sorry, I was initially going to use my fat brother as the Licker,
using a GBCamera, so I designed the title graphics for this purpose.
But I had to drop the digitised graphics as I had to spend too much
time on them :-(  Don't worry, fat bro will now appear in his own
virtual pet sim, called Super Virtual Fat Brother.


Theres no sound!:

Sorry again! Not enough time to code sound effects or music, I spent
TOO much time on the graphics, then realised I had to code the game
logic in ONE day! There will be sound in later versions, more tables,
and MORE LICKERS!


Later versions?:

Yes, I'll code a special version, either for my Birthday in November,
or a special Christmas one! With extra goodies! I just don't have the
time at the moment, I'm moving to London now!


How do I get this?:

I'll post it everywhere I can when its ready, GB home dev rom scene
gets bigger all the time!


Contact?:

Don't be offended if I don't answer you quickly, as I'll be living
without a PC for a while now!

My EMail is: sjones@dominionamtx.freeserve.co.uk
I'm sometimes on EFNET IRC #GBDev as "scallywag"




