                                  DROPINI
                                    by
                     Shen Mansell (shenmansell@hotmail.com)

    ------------
    INTRODUCTION
    ------------
    
    Dropini is an exciting puzzle game for the PC and gameboy. A variant of 
    the ever popular Tetris, Dropini will provide you with several hours of
    addictive gameplay a day. The two player version will allow you and a 
    friend to battle it out for dropini supremacy.

    ---------                              
    THE STORY
    ---------

    Little balls of slime are falling from the sky and it is up to you to
    color coordinate them in groups of four or more, allowing them to
    disappear. Dynamite may also be used to help the little guys on 
    their merry way.


    -----------                           
    HOW TO PLAY
    -----------

    Colored balls will drop in lots of two. These balls can be rotated using
    the space bar, moved left and right useing the arrow keys and forced to
    drop faster using the down key. If you have a score of more then fifty
    then one ball may be turned into dynamite by hitting the enter key.

    The object of the game is the join the balls into groups of four or more 
    balls of the same color. When two balls of the same color are placed
    next to each other they will join, and when four or more join in a group
    that group will disappear.

    When a group disappears you will get a score based on how many balls 
    were in the group. the first ball in the group will score 1 point, the
    second ball in the group will score 2 points, the third 3 and so on.

    If you are able to make 2 group disappear with 1 set of falling balls 
    then the score you receive will be the score of both individual groups 
    added together then multiplied by 8.

    For example:
      a group of 4 balls will give you:
         1 + 2 + 3 + 4 = 10 points
      a group of 5 balls:
         1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5 = 15 points
      a group of 4 balls and a group of 5 balls:
         ( 15 + 10 ) * 8 = 120 points

    As you make more groups of balls disappear, the balls will begin to 
    fall at a faster pace. Eventually the balls will slow down, but when
    this happens, the minimum number of balls needed to make a group 
    disappear will increase by one. So the first time the speed slows down
    you will need to start making groups of at least 5 balls.

    If you are playing a fast game then the game will end when you complete
    50 lines, or the balls reach the top of the playing field. In a long 
    game play will continue until the balls reach the top of the playing 
    field.

    
    -------------
    ABOUT DROPINI
    -------------
    
    Dropini was written on a 386sx-20 using Turbo C++ version 3.0 from
    Borland International, Inc. The amazing graphics for the game were 
    draw by hand and scanned into the computer using a black and white 
    hand held scanner, then colored in using the paint program included 
    with Windows 95.

    Several libraries developed by other people were used. Without their
    help this game would have taken much longer to write and/or been less
    excellent then it currently is. The libraries used are

    The Modex105 graphics library by Matt Pritchard.
    The SMIXC sound library by Ethan Brodsky.
    The Fmplay music library by Ezra Dreisbach and
    A joystick library by Simone Zanella.

    The Gameboy Port uses:
    GBDK v 2-1-0 by all the GBDK Team	
    GBTD and GBMB by Harry Mulder
   
    --------
    ABOUT ME
    --------

    The PC version of this game was primarily written in the period of 
    time between finishing university and getting a job. I now work at the 
    Wellington City Council as an applications programmer (C, Sybase and
    Powerbuilder). The gameboy version was started on 19 Jan 2000.

    ----------
    DISCLAIMER
    ----------

    The author makes no warranty, express or implied, with respect to 
    this software, its quality, performance, merchantability or fitness 
    for a particular purpose. The author shall have no liability for 
    special, incidental, or consequential damages arising out of or 
    resulting from the use of modification of this software. 



