The Princess & The Pauper

Synopsis:
The Princess & the Pauper is a comical game about the misadventures of a young poor boy and a stuck up snotty lady.  The game takes place in various episodes and is written in serial.

Technical Notes:
The Princess & the Pauper utilizes a new engine created by Jason W. Thompson code named "Lovelace".  The name "Lovelace" was named in respect of the very beautiful daughter of Lord Byron (the poet), Ada Byron Lovelace.  She is known in history for being the very first programmer.  The engine allows for object style programming in a low level environment.  It has many useful macros and a superior interrupt handling routines that allow for up to 32 processes to be done per interrupt.  Keep in mind that though it has the capabilities to do such, the Gameboy itself has its own limitations and thus the average user will probably only use up to 10 processes at once.  On top of its superior interrupt handling routines, it has built in sound support and Super Gameboy support.  The sound sub engine is very similar to Blackbox's Musicbox and can even use files created by which.  The essential difference between Lovelace's music engine and Musicbox is that the music can be up to four times as long (8k * 4 or 32k), the sound effects routine is superior to Musicbox's, and Lovelace's music engine utilizes the HOME bank rather than much needed switchable work RAM (Instead of using $D000, it uses some random area in HOME code in the range of $0000-$3F00).  Much credit, however, should be given to the crew of Musicbox as this engine is based off of their Musicbox software.  Also note that if any real money is made off any Lovelace software, one should purchase a license to use Musicbox even though they will not be using the real Musicbox software.  The Super Gameboy support is also a unique feature in Lovelace.  There appears to be no homebrew software out there that correctly uses features found in the Super Gameboy.  Please email me at sega@world-of-nintendo.com if I am incorrect (FYI: "They Came From Outer Space" attempted to use SGB features, but they do not work on the real machine. So please do not email me about that game.)

On top of using the "Lovelace" engine, it uses its own engine that allows for unique features that would only be useful in The Princess & The Pauper.  This co-engine will be referred to as "Princess".  "Princess" allows for many neat RPG elements in the game.  The aspect of the engine that I'm most proud of is the text routines.  If you walk around to people in the game, you'll notice several things.  First, the window will never overlap the sprite being talked to.  This was very irritating in games such as Final Fantasy II for the Gameboy.  The second feature of the text to look at is the fact that it is able to rise out as a window from the middle of the screen in a smooth fashion (1 pixels both ways per Vblank).  If you play games such as Zelda, you will notice that there text engine goes 8 pixels per 8 Vblanks (That is: not as smooth).  Also as a neat feature the text starts to form even before the text box is completely open.  The only other feature that I should point out now is the map movement feature.  This feature is basically a modified concept of the Gameboy Zelda engine.  Rather than only having a one screen range, the Princess engine allows for the user to take full advantage of the entire VRAM thus allowing for larger rooms.  This technique is also done in the SNES Zelda.

Personal Notes:
Everybody seems to have a way of expressing their feelings one way or another.  Right now my roommate is playing his guitar.  Merci, one of the music composers, can beautifully express herself through the piano.  My big sister uses art.  As for me, I'm not very good at any of those things.  I'm a coder.  So I created this series to express myself and to show in a comical fashion the trials and tribulations I face in everyday life.  Though it is not mentioned in this episode, the user will soon realize that certain elements in the game actually represent real life qualities.  One huge theme that will go across the entire series is Jason's love for Magic. In reality it is a reflection of my love to code.  Jason will constantly be ridiculed for deciding to use magic more often than a sword or other physical weapon.

The other major personal note in this game is the character's personalities.  They are all a reflection of people I know in real life.  I tried to make Jason react to situations in a similar fashion that I would.  For example swearing.  I get irritated when people constantly swear so in the opening scene where Michelle and the Prince are arguing, you will notice a sense of irritation coming from my character.

How to play:
Okay, now that you've read all of the nonsense above, it is time for you to learn how to play the game.  The controls are real simple.  They are based upon the unofficial accepted standard in Gameboy RPGs.  The + pad moves the character around.  The A button is the main action button.  The A or B button further progresses the text in conversation.  The Start or Select button opens up menus.

Walkthrough:
Though this game is simple to grasp the concept of, I decided to write a walkthrough in here anyway.  When you first enter the bar, be sure to talk to everybody except the lady playing the piano.  Once you talk to the lady playing on the piano, the story will progress and you will not be able to return later.  So talk to her after you've talked to everybody else.  When the game progresses be sure to save your game after the argument at home.  There is no way to fast forward/skip the opening credits as they are important to the people who created this game so if you do not wish to sit through them again save the game.  Saving is simple.  Press START to open up the menu, move your cursor to SAVE and press A.  For now, just walk around town and get acquainted with everyone there.  Be sure to look for every hidden easter egg you can in the game.  In fact, I'll admit that somewhere in the game is an invisible man.  Can you find him? This game is just meant to be a sample, a demonstration of Lovelace's power, and a medium to get everyone to laugh after a rigorous coding competition.

Final Notes:
The only other thing I have to say now is to be sure to anticipate further episodes.  Since my girlfriend "broke up" with me, be sure to anticipate some funny situations as I reflect on the ups and downs of being broken up with.  Also I've got many surprises up my sleeves for further episodes.  I will try to continue to make this game "Liberty Friendly" as long as I don't bomb this compo the way I bombed Y2kode.  Otherwise I may not see a point in doing so.  Though this game is just in its first episode I hope to do well in order to acquire some funds to get an AGB dev kit.  Anyway, have fun, laugh, and anticipate!  
