Rob's Pakman

(See pacman.c sourcefile for version history etc.)

Use the old d-pad to move Pakman around the maze. 
Press Start to pause the game (a hi-tech blank screen will be displayed until Start is pressed again). Every so often a cherry will appear, these are good for building up the score! 
You get a bonus life every so many points (I forget the exact value; it's in the vars.h source somewhere). 
You can't have more than 5 lives at once though. 
The game has 4 different mazes that simply loop around and around; however, once you've gone through a 'set' of 4, the game will get slightly faster.
The ghosts are truly stupid. A future version might rectify this.
There is no sound. Do not adjust your gameboy!

Seems to work fine on No$Gmb (which it was developed on) and on a real CGB.

I make no claims on the quality of the code, or the battery-preserving nature of the instructions, etc. I'm just making this up as I go along.

There is no vblank stuff - the game is a little jerky at times. :-(

This is my first attempt at writing something on the gameboy. Hopefully my next attempt will be something a little more original and impressive. :-)

Coded using GBDK 2.95-3, CodeWrite, GBMB, GBTD and GIQ. Nice...

Thanks to the good people of the Gameboy Development mailing list, the GBDK soldiers themselves, and those awfully helpful people you find on Cix if you know where to look. :-)

Knocking this up, on and off over a period of a few weeks, helped me to recuperate from a cornea transplant that has subsequently 'rejected'. I'm off alcohol for a little while (if you know me you'll know what a bummer that is for me), and I expect to be under the knife for another transplant attempt in the next few weeks. If you try to get in touch with me and get no response; I'm not snubbing you, I'm probably just temporarily unwell. :-)

I'm particularly interested in constructive criticism, and people who go 'you could have done this bit like this, instead, and that would have been better because....' etc. - I'm genuinely interested in learning about GB/CGB development. I'm a dull Windows programmer by day....!


If you want to see how games were really done in the 'old' days, visit www.robsoft.co.uk/ultimate


Cheers!

Rob Uttley
7 Feb 2001

rob@robsoft.co.uk