(taken from www.robsoft.co.uk)

In these dull, tedious days when every other program on telly is basically an excuse for Stuart Maconie to reminisce on what he thought the 1980s were all about, it's nice to have something genuinely retro to look back on.  
 
Something that really does include the sights and smells (but not sounds) of those heady days.
 
When men were men, and spotty teenage boys often wore tea-towels on their heads and pretended to be Arabian folk.  

We at robsoft have been beavering away (we wish) for almost a few hours now and have managed to create a truly fantastic retro experience - one we're sure you'll cherish until the phone bill comes in.  
 
When we think of the 80s, we think of Spectrum and Atari. We think of Jet Pac, Combat, Big Country (skirl!), Toyah Wilcox, Kim Wilde and Crystal Palace FC. Top Deck Shandy, KP Outer Spacers and Smash Hits.
 
But most of all, we think of Pacman.  

(All you clever sods who think that Pacman came out in the late 70s can leave the show at this point. robsoft grew up in Britain, the land that time and technology forgot.)
 
(We didn't even get wanky old copies of Street Fighter into our local kebab houses until the early 90s.)  

Pacman was the world's first truly acceptable face of pill-popping. Sure, these days you've got your Fatboy Slim pillhead club culture and what have you - but back then, Pacman (as he's known to his friends) was a truly subversive experience.
 
With his monotone wakka-wakka (predating all this modern dance club shite by nearly 20 years) and his somewhat ambiguous relationship with Ms. Pacman, he was a trendsetter before his time.  

And so, with a degree of pride we bring you
 
Pakman
 
(name accidently mis-spelt to avoid Namco's lawyers).  
 
But the experience wouldn't be right if we left Pacman to roam aimlessly around your bloody P7 9Ghz 1Gb Intel Megalosloth dog's arse of a computer.  

Or your smarmy poncey bloody see-thru bottle-blue plastic soapdish Ikea reject palm-pilot designer in-joke Emporer's-new-clothes gizmo iMac.  

And those clog wearing beardy Linux types can forget it, too.  

Nope, to truly enjoy the Pacman experience you need to be playing it on a bit of shitty 1980's computer hardware. And, looking around the world today, the only piece of shitty 1980's computer hardware you're all likely to have handy is a Gameboy.  
 
Thus we have Pakman for the Gameboy. Hurrah!  

However, in the true spirit of robsoft, this won't actually run on an original Gameboy. Nor will it run on one of them there Pocket Gameboy gizmos.  
 
Oh deary me no, you need a Color Gameboy.  
 
So it's late 1990's shitty computer hardware after all. Hurrah!  

Best of all, if you're one of them boffin-types who can use terms like 'blowing a rom' without sniggering, you'll doubtlessly piss yourself with excitement to learn that the game runs fine on the real deal!  
 
Yep, you can download this file and feed it to your illegal Bung/whatever Gameboy Eprom blower and start playing this little baby on the train! In the bath! In bed! At work!  
 
(We have tried all of these scenarios and can confirm that the last one is particularly rewarding).  

Finally, in a concession to all you annoying PC and Mac types out there who really haven't a bloody clue whatsoever, this little baby can be loaded into your average half-decent in-a-slightly-missing-the-point kind-of-way Color Gameboy emulator gadget gizmo palm thingy.  
 
Tell you what - we'll even chuck in a few links so that the truly friendless (and clueless) out there can share in the fun.  
 
Are we nice, or what?  

Anyway, enough shite. Click below to witness the awesome graphical delight of the beast, and to also finally download the bloody thing.  

Features include:
 
4 Glorious Mazes!
Stupid Ghosts That Leer!
Cherries for the popping!
Guaranteed Sound-FX free!
Obscure Scoring Bug We Couldn't Be Arsed To Fix!
Absolutely No Cheat Modes!
Namco Laywers: It's reassuringly different to the original!
Spectrum-a-like font!
Continuous Pause! 



http://www.robsoft.co.uk





disclaimer
 
If you are a big legal-type dude from Nintendo, chill: we love your kit. I personally own shitloads of Nintendo stuff, even the crappy things, and if I could afford to buy all the N64s you can't sell, believe me I would. It's a great machine. So don't get shitty with us for making a Gameboy rom without your permission okay? We used free development tools from the web, and no animals or small elfin like creatures were harmed during testing.  
 
And if you're from Namco; look, we've noticed how the girlies' boobs bounce around a bit in Soul Calibur. So before you come getting all holier-than-thou with us, why not pop down the corridor to see what your own boffins are up to?
The mucky little deviants...  



rob@robsoft.co.uk





